# General mechanism

This repository supports the reporting of transmitted frames in addition to notifications of received frames similar to CAN232 and CANUSB.


# Rx frame reporting

When the device receives a CAN frame, it is notified in the same format as the transmission command: `r`, `R`, `t`, `T`, `d`, `D`, `b` and `B`.
This function is enabled by default and can be disabled by `z` command.
If disabled, the device will not send any data to the host even if it receives CAN frames.

The Rx frame reporting is summarized in the table bellow.
See the "Contents in a report" section for the details of `<Rx frame>`.

| Rx frame reporting | Timing          | Message      |
| ------------------ | --------------- | ------------ |
| Disabled           | Receive a frame | -            |
| Enabled            | Receive a frame | `<Rx frame>` |

Note:
- Rx frames are subject to the acceptance filter. A Rx frame will not be reported if it's not accepted by the filter. See the "Acceptance filter" page for details.

Example:
- `t10020011[CR]`

This message will be sent from the device when a classical CAN data frame with ID = 0x100 and 2 data bytes with the valued 0x00 and 0x11 is received.


# Tx event reporting

When the device transmits a CAN frame and it's acknowledged by another node, it is notified in a format that is the transmission command plus a `z` or `Z` at the beginning.
This function is disabled by default and can be enabled by `z` command.
If disabled, the device responds with `z[CR]` or `Z[CR]` when the transmission command is in the correct format and successfully saved in the buffer without any reporting for a successful transmission.

The Tx event reporting is summarized in the table bellow.
See the "Contents in a report" section for the details of `<Tx event>`.

| Tx event reporting | Timing                             | Message            |
| ------------------ | ---------------------------------- | ------------------ |
| Disabled           | Save the Tx frame in the buffer    | `z[CR]` or `Z[CR]` |
| Disabled           | Discard the transmission command   | `[BELL]`           |
| Disabled           | Successfully transmit the Tx frame | -                  |
| Enabled            | Save the Tx frame in the buffer    | `[CR]`             |
| Enabled            | Discard the transmission command   | `[BELL]`           |
| Enabled            | Successfully transmit the Tx frame | `<Tx event>`       |

Note:
- If Tx event reporting is enabled and the frame transmission fails, the device will repeatedly attempt to send the frame until it is acknowledged, and then report the successful transmission.

Example:
- `zt10020011[CR]`

This message will be sent from the device when a classical CAN data frame with ID = 0x100 and 2 data bytes with the valued 0x00 and 0x11 is transmitted.


# Contents in a report

The `<Rx frame>` and `<Tx event>` always contain the type of frame, CAN ID, DLC and Data bytes (for data frames).
The following items can be added to them:

- Timestamp : Milli/micro second timestamp in hex, configurable with `Z` or `z` commands.
- Error state indicator : ESI flag (0: Error active, 1: Error passive), configurable with `z` commands.

Format:
- `<z>riiil<tt...><e>[CR]` (Base remote frame)
- `<Z>Riiiiiiiil<tt...><e>[CR]` (Extended remote frame)
- `<z>xiiildd...<tt...><e>[CR]` (Base data frame)
- `<Z>Xiiiiiiiildd...<tt...><e>[CR]` (Extended data frame)

Where `<z>` or `<Z>` is used for `<Tx event>`, `x` = `t` / `d` / `b`, `X` = `T` / `D` / `B`, `<tt...>` is timestamp and `<e>` is ESI.

Example 1:
- `t10020011000A0[CR]`

Denotes an incoming classical CAN data frame with ID = 0x100 and 2 data bytes with the valued 0x00 and 0x11.
Additionally, milli second time stamp is activated and is 10 ms and ESI is 0 = error active.

Example 2:
- `zr20030000000F[CR]`

Denotes a successful transmission of classical CAN remote frame with ID = 0x200 and DLC = 3.
Additionally, micro second time stamp is activated and is 15 us.
